In this lecture we are going to prepare the social media links.
Team members may have social media links.
Not all members will have accounts for the same social media platforms.
Our block should be flexible by allowing members to have links to various platforms.
This is where things can get tricky.
We need to provide the option of adding a new link.
So far we've always had a fixed set of elements.
Adding or moving elements from within a block will require some work.
Let's get started.
First, we need to update our attributes in your editor, open the block JSON file.
Inside the attributes, we have an attribute called social handles.
Blocks can store rays in an attribute.
We should help the client by providing a default set of social media handles.
Let's add the default property to the attributes.
The value for this attribute will be an array of objects.
Each object will represent a handle to a social media platform, and each object we are going to store
to properties the URL and icon.
Let's add an object with a URL to Facebook.
Next, let's add a property called Icon.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a font icon set called Bootstrap Icons.
WordPress has icons for various social media platforms.
However, I prefer the icons from the bootstrap icon set.
Bootstrap is a separate CSS framework.
We do not need to learn or use Bootstrap to use these icons.
They can be added separately to a project.
The icons are already available from the theme.
We can begin using them right away.
Head back to the editor.
The icon for Facebook is called Facebook.
Next, let's add another social media handle for Instagram.
Set the URL property to the URL for Instagram.
Next set the icon property to Instagram.
The next step is to loop through.
This attributes values for each object.
We will display a link to a team members social accounts.
Open the edit JS file.
Inside the template search for a div tag with a class called Social Links.
This tag will contain a list of links.
The social handles attribute has been structured beforehand.
We do not need to grab this attributes.
Let's begin looping through the attributes values.
Inside this tag.
Add an expression with the following value.
Social handles.
Dot map.
For this demonstration.
We are looping through the data with the map function inside this function pass in an arrow function
to accept the handle and index arguments.
The handle argument will contain a reference to each item, whereas the index argument will contain
the index of the item in the array.
Normally we wouldn't grab the index, but it's going to be helpful later down the line.
You'll see why in a moment.
After creating the function, let's return an anchor element.
On each iteration we are going to render a link.
The h ref attribute will be sent to the handle dot url property.
Next, let's set the key attribute to the index argument.
I'm introducing a new attribute called Key.
Looping through items in an array can be tricky for react.
Arrays can constantly change.
Any time an array changes, our component must reflect those changes.
React can easily become confused during this process.
By adding the key attribute, React can associate a specific item in an array with an element on the
page.
If you ever experience funky behavior, you may want to consider adding the key attributes.
The value for this attribute must be a unique value from the current item in the array.
In this example, we are using the items index by adding the key attribute.
We shouldn't experience inconsistent behavior.
After adding the key, let's render the icon inside the anchor element.
Add an eye tag with the following classes.
B i.
B I handle dot icon.
Bootstrap icons can be added by adding the by class.
This class will apply generic styles.
A specific icon can be rendered by its name.
Most icons are prefixed with by.
We are appending the name of the social media platform to grab the icon.
We're finished.
Let's try testing our code in the browser, refresh the page and add the team members group block.
After adding the block.
Each team member has two icons.
That's great.
We've successfully looped through the links in the blocks attributes.
The next step is to provide a field for adding or modifying existing links.
In the next set of lectures, let's begin working on a solution.